README.md, before:



## Project Purpose
This is a Code Institute student project for Milestone 2, built to satisfy the requirements for the EKC DigitalLearn Diploma (Level 5) in [Web Application Development](https://www.ekcgroup.ac.uk/ekc-digitallearn/computing/web-application-development-diploma). 

This project has been created in order to provide 2D gaming entertainment on a deployed interactive website. The project was built using **Gitpod**. 

The information has been presented in a way that ensures the users achieve their goals of:
* understanding what the site's function is
* understanding how to play the game
* being able to email suggestions to us

The site also enhances the owner's goals by:
* showcasing their gaming creativity
* showcasing their JavaScript programming skills
* showcasing their testing skills


## Project Requirements
* The technologies used were HTML, CSS and **JavaScript**.
* This interactive front end project contains one page with a JavaScript game and an email form for contacting us
* This README.md file explains what the project does and the value it provides for the users
* Version control is provided by Git and GitHub
* External code, libraries, templates, images, information, etc. will be listed in the **Credits**, at the bottom of this README.
* This project is deployed via GitHub Pages and the code in a GitHub repository.


<h1 align="center">Flappy Fantom</h1>

[View the live project here.](https://janet-dev.github.io/ci-milestone-project-2/)

The aim of the project is provide an easy to play game for most ages and to provide a non-taxing escape from daily stress. 

The site is designed to be responsive and accessible on a range of devices, making it easy to use for potential users.

<h2 align="center"><img src="#"></h2>

## User Experience (UX)

### User stories
As this is a brand new site with limited features, so the user stories were taken from the perspective of the visiting or anonymous user. We don't have any traffic data yet and we don't really know who are users are at this point.
* As a visiting user, I would like to connect with the company via email.
* As a visiting user, I would like to easily understand how to play the game.
* As a visiting user, I would like to play at increasingly advanced levels.
* As a visiting user, I would like to see my score and my current level.

### Owner goals
* I would like to build a retro 2D game.
* I wouild like to build a family game which is easy for both children and adults to use.
* I would like the game to be visually attractive and fun to play.
* I would like the game to be created for most modern devices.
* I would like to create code that is easy for others to follow.
* I would like to create clean code that follows best practices.

## Gitpod Reminders

To run a frontend (HTML, CSS, Javascript only) application in Gitpod, in the terminal, type:

`python3 -m http.server`

A blue button should appear to click: _Make Public_,

Another blue button should appear to click: _Open Browser_.

To run a backend Python file, type `python3 app.py`, if your Python file is named `app.py` of course.

A blue button should appear to click: _Make Public_,

Another blue button should appear to click: _Open Browser_.

In Gitpod you have superuser security privileges by default. Therefore you do not need to use the `sudo` (superuser do) command in the bash terminal in any of the lessons.

Commit message:

Install Jest and add app.test.js file

README.md, after:



## Project Purpose
This is a Code Institute student project for Milestone 2, built to satisfy the requirements for the EKC DigitalLearn Diploma (Level 5) in [Web Application Development](https://www.ekcgroup.ac.uk/ekc-digitallearn/computing/web-application-development-diploma). 

This project has been created in order to provide 2D gaming entertainment on a deployed interactive website. The project was built using **Gitpod**. 

The information has been presented in a way that ensures the users achieve their goals of:
* understanding what the site's function is
* understanding how to play the game
* being able to email suggestions to us

The site also enhances the owner's goals by:
* showcasing their gaming creativity
* showcasing their JavaScript programming skills
* showcasing their testing skills


## Project Requirements
* The technologies used were HTML, CSS and **JavaScript**.
* This interactive front end project contains one page with a JavaScript game and an email form for contacting us
* This README.md file explains what the project does and the value it provides for the users
* Version control is provided by Git and GitHub
* External code, libraries, templates, images, information, etc. will be listed in the **Credits**, at the bottom of this README.
* This project is deployed via GitHub Pages and the code in a GitHub repository.


<h1 align="center">Flappy Fantom</h1>

[View the live project here.](https://janet-dev.github.io/ci-milestone-project-2/)

The aim of the project is provide an easy to play game for most ages and to provide a non-taxing escape from daily stress. 

The site is designed to be responsive and accessible on a range of devices, making it easy to use for potential users.

<h2 align="center"><img src="#"></h2>

## User Experience (UX)

### User stories
As this is a brand new site with limited features, so the user stories were taken from the perspective of the visiting or anonymous user. We don't have any traffic data yet and we don't really know who are users are at this point.
* As a visiting user, I would like to connect with the company via email.
* As a visiting user, I would like to easily understand how to play the game.
* As a visiting user, I would like to play at increasingly advanced levels.
* As a visiting user, I would like to see my score and my current level.

### Owner goals
* I would like to build a retro 2D game.
* I wouild like to build a family game which is easy for both children and adults to use.
* I would like the game to be visually attractive and fun to play.
* I would like the game to be created for most modern devices.
* I would like to create code that is easy for others to follow.
* I would like to create clean code that follows best practices.

## Jest Testing

To run tests in the terminal, type:

`npm test`

## Gitpod Reminders

To run a frontend (HTML, CSS, Javascript only) application in Gitpod, in the terminal, type:

`python3 -m http.server`

A blue button should appear to click: _Make Public_,

Another blue button should appear to click: _Open Browser_.

To run a backend Python file, type `python3 app.py`, if your Python file is named `app.py` of course.

A blue button should appear to click: _Make Public_,

Another blue button should appear to click: _Open Browser_.

In Gitpod you have superuser security privileges by default. Therefore you do not need to use the `sudo` (superuser do) command in the bash terminal in any of the lessons.
